---
title: Install Wordpress
toc: false
---

You're going to be installing Wordpress through Reclaim Hosting that you will be using as your personal website over the course of the semester and beyond. During the semester, you're going to use this Wordpress site as a way to learn different skills and create assignments. At the end of the semester, we'll go over how to transition this website into a portfolio that you can use as a public-facing site.

Log into your Reclaim Hosting account and then start to follow the [helpful instructions](https://community.reclaimhosting.com/t/installing-wordpress/265) for you to install Wordpress through your account. :rotating_light: :rotating_light: :rotating_light: However, before you actually click Install, make sure to do the following :rotating_light: :rotating_light: :rotating_light::

- When you install Wordpress through Reclaim Hosting it will ask you to choose an Administrator username and password. This is not automatically the same as your username and password for Reclaim Hosting! You need to choose a username and password (it can be the same as your Reclaim Hosting ones if you want) and then **write down this Wordpress username and password** so you can log into your Wordpress installation moving forward.
- Before you click Install, go to `Advanced` -> `Automatic Backup` and check the box for `1 daily + 1 weekly + 1 monthly`

Once the installation has finished, go back to Reclaim Hosting's `File Manager` and open `public_html`. You should now see a bunch of new files and folders like `wp-admin`. These were automatically generated by the installation process to "build" your Wordpress site. If you see these folders, it means you should have a Wordpress website installed under `http://yourdomainname/`. **Try going to this URL in a new web browser** and make sure you see a page that says `My blog` somewhere.

To actually start modifying your website, you will be logging in to the Wordpress dashboard (separate from Reclaim Hosting). The login page will be: `http://yourdomainname/wp-admin`, and you will use the Administrator username and password you specified when you installed Wordpress. Visit this URL and make sure that you are able to **log in to the Wordpress dashboard** before the start of class. You don't need to do anything inside the dashboard, but make sure you are able to log in.